.\" htoprs.1 — man page for htoprs(1)
.\" Ported from htop's htop.1.in (htop 3.5.1). htoprs is a faithful
.\" Rust port of htop; the command-line interface documented here is
.\" the port target. Interactive-runtime commands live in htop(1)
.\" until the TUI is ported.
.TH HTOPRS 1 "2026-07-02" "htoprs 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
htoprs \- interactive process viewer (a faithful Rust port of htop)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B htoprs
.RB [ \-dCFhpustvH ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B htoprs
is a Rust port of
.BR htop (1),
the cross-platform ncurses-based process viewer. It is being ported
function-for-function from the htop 3.5.1 C source, which is the
specification; the command-line surface below mirrors htop's.
.LP
Like
.BR top (1),
htop lets you scroll vertically and horizontally, interact using a
pointing device, observe all processes with their command lines, view
them in a tree, select multiple processes, and act on them at once.
Tasks such as killing and renicing can be done without entering PIDs.
.LP
.B PORT STATUS:
the port is at an early stage. The
.BR XUtils.c
string and math utility layer is ported and tested; the TUI, process
table, meters, and platform data collection are not yet ported, so the
binary does not yet present an interactive interface. The options below
document the CLI contract being ported. For interactive-runtime
commands, see
.BR htop (1).
.SH COMMAND-LINE OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.
.TP
\fB\-d \-\-delay=DELAY\fR
Delay between updates, in tenths of a second. If the delay value is
less than 1, it is increased to 1, i.e. 1/10 second. If the delay value
is greater than 100, it is decreased to 100, i.e. 10 seconds.
.TP
\fB\-C \-\-no-color \-\-no-colour\fR
Start in monochrome mode.
.TP
\fB\-F \-\-filter=FILTER\fR
Filter processes by terms matching the commands. The terms are matched
case-insensitive and as fixed strings (not regexps). You can separate
multiple terms with "|".
.TP
\fB\-\-no-function-bar\fR
Hide the function bar.
.TP
\fB\-h \-\-help\fR
Display a help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-p \-\-pid=PID,PID...\fR
Show only the given PIDs.
.TP
\fB\-s \-\-sort\-key COLUMN\fR
Sort by this column (use \-\-sort\-key help for a column list).
This will force a list view unless you specify \-t at the same time.
Sorting in tree mode applies to the direct children of each process.
.TP
\fB\-u \-\-user[=USERNAME|UID]\fR
Show only the processes of a given user, or self if omitted.
.TP
\fB\-n \-\-max-iterations=NUMBER\fR
Exit after NUMBER refresh iterations.
.TP
\fB\-U \-\-no-unicode\fR
Do not use unicode but ASCII characters for graph meters.
.TP
\fB\-M \-\-no-mouse\fR
Disable support of mouse control.
.TP
\fB\-\-no-meters\fR
Hide graph meters.
.TP
\fB\-\-readonly\fR
Disable all system and process changing features.
.TP
\fB\-V \-\-version\fR
Output version information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-t \-\-tree\fR
Show processes in tree view. This can be used to force a tree view when
requesting a sort order with \-s.
.TP
\fB\-H \-\-highlight-changes[=DELAY]\fR
Highlight new and old processes.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR htop (1),
.BR top (1),
.BR ps (1)
.SH AUTHOR
htoprs is written by MenkeTechnologies as a faithful Rust port of htop.
htop was originally written by Hisham Muhammad and is maintained by the
htop dev team. See
.UR https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies/htoprs
the htoprs repository
.UE .
