.\" htoprsall(1) — comprehensive all-in-one man page for htoprs
.\" Modeled after zshall(1): every man page in one document.
.\" Ported from htop's htop.1.in (htop 3.5.1). htoprs is a faithful
.\" Rust port of htop; this page documents the full htop feature set
.\" htoprs targets — every option, meter, view, and keybinding.
.\" Render with:  man -l man/man1/htoprsall.1
.\" Install:      cp man/man1/htoprsall.1 /usr/local/share/man/man1/
.TH HTOPRSALL 1 "2026-07-03" "htoprs 0.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
htoprsall \- the htoprs comprehensive reference (invocation, options,
process list, meters, tree, search, filter, tagging, sorting, every
keybinding, function bar, setup screen, colors, mouse, signals, config)
.SH OVERVIEW
This is the all-in-one
.B htoprs
manual, modeled on
.BR zshall (1).
It concatenates every section of the htoprs reference into a single
page so you can grep with `/`:
.RS 2
.PP
.B 1.  INVOCATION
.RB "\(em " "startup, default behavior, privileges"
.br
.B 2.  COMMAND-LINE OPTIONS
.RB "\(em " "delay, color, filter, pid, sort, user, tree, readonly"
.br
.B 3.  THE PROCESS LIST
.RB "\(em " "columns, meanings, per-process state"
.br
.B 4.  THE HEADER AND METERS
.RB "\(em " "CPU, memory, swap, load, uptime, tasks, and meter modes"
.br
.B 5.  TREE VIEW
.RB "\(em " "hierarchy, expand/collapse, sort within tree"
.br
.B 6.  SEARCH, FILTER, AND TAGGING
.RB "\(em " "incremental search, filter, tag, act on many at once"
.br
.B 7.  SORTING
.RB "\(em " "sort column, direction, quick sort keys"
.br
.B 8.  INTERACTIVE COMMANDS
.RB "\(em " "every keybinding in every mode"
.br
.B 9.  THE FUNCTION BAR
.RB "\(em " "F1\(enF10 and their actions"
.br
.B 10. THE SETUP SCREEN
.RB "\(em " "meters, display options, colors, columns"
.br
.B 11. COLOR SCHEMES
.br
.B 12. MOUSE SUPPORT
.br
.B 13. SIGNALS
.RB "\(em " "the kill menu, nice, affinity, IO priority"
.br
.B 14. CONFIGURATION AND FILES
.br
.B 15. ENVIRONMENT
.br
.B 16. EXIT STATUS
.br
.B 17. EXAMPLES
.br
.B 18. PORTING NOTES
.RB "\(em " "how htoprs tracks the htop 3.5.1 C source"
.RE
.PP
For a shorter quick-reference page see
.BR htoprs (1).
.SH NAME
htoprs \- interactive process viewer (a faithful Rust port of htop)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B htoprs
.RB [ \-dCFhpustvH ]
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B htoprs
is a Rust port of
.BR htop (1),
the cross-platform ncurses process viewer, ported function-for-function
from the htop 3.5.1 C source, which is the specification.
.PP
Like
.BR top (1),
htoprs lets you scroll the process list vertically and horizontally,
interact with a pointing device, observe all processes with their full
command lines, view them as a tree, select (tag) multiple processes,
and act on them at once. Tasks such as killing and renicing are done
without typing PIDs \(em you point at the process and press a key.
.PP
.B Highlights:
.IP \[bu] 2
Live process table with configurable, reorderable columns and a
per-core / aggregate CPU, memory, and swap header of meters.
.IP \[bu] 2
Tree view of the process hierarchy with expand / collapse.
.IP \[bu] 2
Incremental search, live text filter, and multi-process tagging.
.IP \[bu] 2
Sort by any column; quick keys for CPU, memory, and time.
.IP \[bu] 2
Send any signal, renice, set CPU affinity and IO priority \(em to one
process or every tagged process at once.
.IP \[bu] 2
A setup screen (F2) to configure meters, display options, colors, and
columns, persisted to
.IR ~/.config/htop/htoprc .
.IP \[bu] 2
Full mouse support: click to select, click the function bar, click a
column header to sort.
.SH "1.  INVOCATION"
Run
.B htoprs
with no arguments for the default interactive view: all processes of
all users, meters in the header, the process list below, and the
function bar at the bottom.
.PP
htoprs does not require elevated privileges to view processes. Acting
on a process you do not own (killing, renicing to a higher priority)
requires the appropriate privileges, exactly as with
.BR htop (1)
and
.BR kill (1).
.SH "2.  COMMAND-LINE OPTIONS"
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-delay=\fIDELAY\fR
Delay between updates, in tenths of a second. If the delay value is
less than 1, it is increased to 1 (1/10 second). If it is greater than
100, it is decreased to 100 (10 seconds).
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-no\-color\fR, \fB\-\-no\-colour\fR
Start in monochrome mode.
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-filter=\fIFILTER\fR
Show only the commands matching the given filter. Terms are matched
case-insensitively as fixed strings (not regular expressions); separate
multiple terms with "|".
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-function\-bar\fR
Hide the function bar at the bottom of the screen.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display a help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pid=\fIPID,PID...\fR
Show only the given PIDs.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sort\-key\fI COLUMN\fR
Sort by this column. Use
.B \-\-sort\-key help
for the column list. This forces a flat (list) view unless
.B \-t
is also given, in which case sorting applies to the direct children of
each process within the tree.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-tree\fR
Show processes in tree view. Combine with
.B \-s
to force a tree while requesting a sort order.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-user\fR[=\fIUSERNAME\fR|\fIUID\fR]
Show only the processes of a given user, or of the current user if the
argument is omitted.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-max\-iterations=\fINUMBER\fR
Exit after NUMBER refresh iterations. Useful for scripted capture.
.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-no\-unicode\fR
Do not use Unicode; draw graph meters with ASCII characters only.
.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-no\-mouse\fR
Disable mouse control.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-meters\fR
Hide the header graph meters.
.TP
\fB\-\-readonly\fR
Disable all system- and process-changing features: no kill, no renice,
no affinity or IO-priority changes. A safe observation-only mode.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-highlight\-changes\fR[=\fIDELAY\fR]
Highlight new and old processes. With an optional DELAY (in seconds),
control how long a change stays highlighted.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Output version information and exit.
.SH "3.  THE PROCESS LIST"
Each row is a process (or, in tree view, a node). The default columns:
.PP
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Column|.B Meaning
PID|process ID
USER|owning user name
PRI|kernel scheduling priority
NI|nice value (\-20 highest \(-> 19 lowest)
VIRT|virtual memory size
RES|resident set size (physical memory in use)
SHR|shared memory size
S|process state (R/S/D/Z/T/...)
CPU%|percentage of a single core's time
MEM%|percentage of physical memory (RES / total)
TIME+|cumulative CPU time, MM:SS.hh
Command|command line (or program name)
.TE
.PP
Process states in the
.B S
column follow
.BR ps (1):
.B R
running,
.B S
sleeping (interruptible),
.B D
uninterruptible sleep,
.B Z
zombie/defunct,
.B T
stopped/traced. Columns are configurable and reorderable in the setup
screen (chapter 10).
.SH "4.  THE HEADER AND METERS"
The header holds one or more
.I meters.
Available meters include:
.PP
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Meter|.B Shows
CPU|per-core or averaged CPU usage, colored by usage type
Memory|used / buffers / cache / total physical memory
Swap|used / total swap
Load average|1, 5, and 15 minute run-queue averages
Uptime|time since boot
Tasks|thread / process / running counts
Hostname|the machine hostname
Clock|current time
Date|current date
DateTime|combined date and time
Battery|charge percentage and AC state (where available)
Blank|spacer to arrange the layout
.TE
.PP
Each meter can be displayed in one of several
.I modes:
.RS 2
.TP
.B Bar
a horizontal bar broken into colored regions.
.TP
.B Text
a compact numeric line.
.TP
.B Graph
a scrolling braille/plot history of recent values.
.TP
.B LED
a large seven-segment style readout.
.RE
.PP
Meters are laid out in a left and a right column; both the set of
meters and their modes are configured in the setup screen (chapter 10)
and persisted to
.IR htoprc .
.SH "5.  TREE VIEW"
Press
.B F5
(or
.BR t )
to toggle tree view, which shows the parent/child hierarchy of
processes instead of a flat list.
.PP
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Key|.B Action
+ / \-|Expand or collapse the subtree under the selected process
* |Expand or collapse all subtrees
F5 / t|Toggle between tree and list view
.TE
.PP
When sorting is requested in tree view, the sort order applies to the
direct children of each parent, preserving the hierarchy.
.SH "6.  SEARCH, FILTER, AND TAGGING"
.SS Search
.B F3
(or
.BR / )
starts an incremental search: type to jump to the next matching
command;
.B F3
again cycles to the next match;
.B Shift+F3
searches backward.
.B Esc
ends the search.
.SS Filter
.B F4
(or
.BR \e )
starts a live filter: only processes whose command matches the typed
text remain visible. The filter persists until cleared with
.B F4
again or
.BR Esc .
.SS Tagging
.B Space
tags or untags the selected process; tagged processes are highlighted.
.B U
untags all. Actions such as kill, renice, and signal apply to every
tagged process at once when any are tagged; otherwise they apply to the
selected process.
.PP
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Key|.B Action
F3 / /|Incremental search
Shift+F3|Search previous match
F4 / \e|Live text filter
Space|Tag / untag selected process
c|Tag the selected process and all its children
U|Untag all
.TE
.SH "7.  SORTING"
.B F6
(or
.BR < " / " > )
chooses the sort column from a menu; select a column and the list
re-sorts.
.B I
inverts the sort direction. Quick sort keys act without opening the
menu:
.PP
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Key|.B Action
F6 / < / >|Open the sort-column menu
I|Invert sort direction
M|Sort by memory usage (MEM%)
P|Sort by processor usage (CPU%)
T|Sort by cumulative time (TIME+)
.TE
.SH "8.  INTERACTIVE COMMANDS"
Every htoprs keybinding, grouped by purpose. Function keys and their
letter aliases are equivalent.
.SS Navigation
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Key|.B Action
Up / Down|Select previous / next process
Left / Right|Scroll the process list horizontally
PgUp / PgDn|Scroll one page up / down
Home / End|Jump to first / last process
Ctrl+A / Ctrl+E|Scroll to the start / end of the command column
.TE
.SS Views and display
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Key|.B Action
F5 / t|Toggle tree view
+ / \- / *|Expand / collapse (see chapter 5)
F / \-\-follow|Follow the selected process as the list re-sorts
u|Show only one user's processes (chooser)
H|Hide / show userland process threads
K|Hide / show kernel threads
p|Toggle full program path in the Command column
Z|Pause / resume list updates
.TE
.SS Process actions
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Key|.B Action
F9 / k|Kill: open the signal menu for the selected/tagged process(es)
F7 / ]|Raise priority (renice \(em, needs privilege)
F8 / [|Lower priority (renice +)
a|Set CPU affinity (where supported)
i|Set IO priority (where supported)
e|Show the process environment
l|List open files of the process (via lsof)
s|Trace system calls of the process (via strace)
.TE
.SS General
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Key|.B Action
F1 / h / ?|Help
F2 / S|Setup screen
F3 / /|Search
F4 / \e|Filter
F6 / < / >|Sort column
F10 / q|Quit
Ctrl+L|Refresh / redraw the screen
.TE
.SH "9.  THE FUNCTION BAR"
The bar along the bottom maps
.BR F1 \(en F10 :
.PP
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Key|.B Label
F1|Help
F2|Setup
F3|Search
F4|Filter
F5|Tree
F6|SortBy
F7|Nice \-
F8|Nice +
F9|Kill
F10|Quit
.TE
.PP
Hide the bar with
.B \-\-no\-function\-bar
to reclaim a line of screen space; every action remains available via
its letter alias.
.SH "10. THE SETUP SCREEN"
.B F2
(or
.BR S )
opens the setup screen with four categories:
.RS 2
.TP
.B Meters
Add, remove, move, and change the mode (Bar / Text / Graph / LED) of
each header meter, in the left or right column.
.TP
.B Display options
Toggles: tree view on start, shadow other users' processes, hide kernel
threads, hide userland threads, highlight base name, highlight
megabytes, highlight large numbers in memory counters, leave a margin
around the header, detailed CPU time, count CPUs from 1, update process
names on every refresh, and more.
.TP
.B Colors
Choose one of the built-in color schemes (chapter 11).
.TP
.B Columns
Add, remove, and reorder the columns of the process list.
.RE
.PP
Changes are written to
.I ~/.config/htop/htoprc
on exit.
.SH "11. COLOR SCHEMES"
htoprs ships the classic htop color schemes, selectable in the
.B Colors
category of the setup screen:
.RS 2
.PP
.B Default
,
.B Monochrome
,
.B "Black on White"
,
.B "Light Terminal"
,
.B "MC (Midnight Commander)"
,
.B "Black Night"
, and
.BR "Broken Gray" .
.RE
.PP
Start in monochrome directly with
.BR \-C .
The selected scheme persists in
.IR htoprc .
.SH "12. MOUSE SUPPORT"
When the terminal reports mouse events (and
.B \-M
is not given):
.PP
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Input|.B Action
Left click (row)|Select that process
Left click (header meter)|Cycle the meter's mode
Left click (column header)|Sort by that column
Left click (function bar)|Invoke that F-key action
Scroll up / down|Move the selection up / down
.TE
.PP
Disable all mouse handling with
.B \-M
or
.BR \-\-no\-mouse .
.SH "13. SIGNALS"
.B F9
(or
.BR k )
opens the signal menu. Choose a signal by name or number and send it to
the selected process, or to every tagged process at once. The default
is
.B SIGTERM
(15); the menu also offers
.BR SIGKILL " (9), " SIGHUP " (1), " SIGINT " (2), " SIGSTOP ", " SIGCONT ,
and the rest of the platform's signal set.
.PP
Priority and scheduling actions:
.RS 2
.TP
.BR F7 " / " ]
Raise priority (more favorable, lower nice value \(em needs privilege).
.TP
.BR F8 " / " [
Lower priority (less favorable, higher nice value).
.TP
.B a
Set CPU affinity: choose the CPUs a process may run on.
.TP
.B i
Set IO scheduling priority class and level.
.RE
.PP
All of these are disabled under
.BR \-\-readonly .
.SH "14. CONFIGURATION AND FILES"
.TP
.I ~/.config/htop/htoprc
Per-user configuration: meters and their modes, display option toggles,
color scheme, columns, sort key and direction. Written on exit; edited
through the setup screen rather than by hand.
.TP
.I /usr/local/share/man/man1/htoprs.1
Short quick-reference man page.
.TP
.I /usr/local/share/man/man1/htoprsall.1
This comprehensive reference.
.PP
htoprs honors the XDG base-directory convention: if
.B $XDG_CONFIG_HOME
is set, the configuration lives under
.IR $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/htop/htoprc .
.SH "15. ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
.B HOME
Locates the configuration directory when
.B $XDG_CONFIG_HOME
is unset.
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Overrides the base directory for
.IR htop/htoprc .
.TP
.B TERM
Selects terminal capabilities; also gates mouse and Unicode support.
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
When set, color is suppressed even on a color terminal (equivalent to
.BR \-C ).
.SH "16. EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion (including a clean quit with
.BR F10 / q ).
.TP
.B 1
Invalid option, invalid sort key, invalid PID list, or a fatal runtime
error.
.SH "17. EXAMPLES"
.PP
Default interactive view:
.RS
.nf
htoprs
.fi
.RE
.PP
Slow the refresh to every 3 seconds:
.RS
.nf
htoprs \-d 30
.fi
.RE
.PP
Watch only your own processes, in a tree:
.RS
.nf
htoprs \-u \-t
.fi
.RE
.PP
Watch two specific PIDs:
.RS
.nf
htoprs \-p 1,1234
.fi
.RE
.PP
Filter to just the ssh processes:
.RS
.nf
htoprs \-F ssh
.fi
.RE
.PP
Sort by memory, monochrome, observation-only:
.RS
.nf
htoprs \-s PERCENT_MEM \-C \-\-readonly
.fi
.RE
.PP
List valid sort keys:
.RS
.nf
htoprs \-\-sort\-key help
.fi
.RE
.PP
Highlight process changes for 5 seconds each:
.RS
.nf
htoprs \-H=5
.fi
.RE
.SH "18. PORTING NOTES"
htoprs is ported function-for-function from the htop 3.5.1 C source,
which is treated as the specification. The
.B XUtils
string and math utility layer is ported and tested; the process table,
meters, tree, setup screen, and platform data collectors are ported
against their upstream counterparts
.RB ( "Process.c" ", " "ProcessList.c" ", " "Meter.c" ", " "ScreenManager.c" ,
and the
.B linux/
and
.B darwin/
platform directories). The command-line surface in chapter 2 mirrors
htop's exactly so that scripts and muscle memory carry over unchanged.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR htoprs (1),
.BR htop (1),
.BR top (1),
.BR ps (1),
.BR kill (1),
.BR renice (1),
.BR lsof (8),
.BR strace (1),
.BR iftoprsall (1),
.BR lsofrsall (1),
.BR nmaprsall (1),
.BR zshrsall (1)
.SH AUTHORS
htoprs is written by MenkeTechnologies
.RI < https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies >
as a faithful Rust port of the htop project.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at
.UR https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies/htoprs/issues
.UE .
